Add file I/O timing infrastructure and streamlined pipeline planning document (#30)
ericphanson/beaker: AGENTS.md

- if the `beaker` CLI app or rust code is mentioned, then work should focus on the `beaker/` subdirectory, which contains the main Rust codebase. Likewise, `beaker-ci.yml` is the github workflow to look for.
- if python code or training is mentioned, these happen in separate top-level environments, look for changes there. New models may be tested against the CLI app in which case both directories may be useful.

## Proposal Planning & Technical Decision Making

When developing proposals, technical plans, or architectural changes, align with these core principles:

### Evidence-Based Development
- **No made-up numbers**: All performance claims must be backed by real benchmarks and measured data
- **Measure before optimizing**: Implement timing infrastructure and collect actual data before making optimization decisions
- **Script reproducible benchmarks**: Provide scripts that others can run to validate performance claims

### Simplicity and Incrementalism

> - **Start simple**: Begin with file-based, sequential approaches before considering in-memory or parallel optimizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Start simple**: especially if the evidence doesn't point to large benefits from a more complex approach
```

- **Eliminate redundancy**: Consolidate similar functions and remove code duplication aggressively
- **Generic solutions**: Prefer reusable, generic implementations over model-specific or use-case-specific code
- **Breaking changes are acceptable**: Don't prioritize backwards compatibility at this development stage

### Ergonomics Over Performance
- **User experience first**: When performance gains are modest (< 5%), prioritize user ergonomics and workflow simplification

> - **Clean separation of concerns**: Keep models agnostic to their usage context (pipeline vs standalone)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Clean separation of concerns**: APIs should make sense on their own without requiring codebase-wide context. For example, models should be generally agnostic to their usage context (pipeline vs standalone).
```

> - **Configuration-based coordination**: Use existing config mechanisms rather than API changes when possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Configuration-based coordination**: Use and expand upon existing config mechanisms to communicate across APIs and serialize those configs to metadata for testing and analysis.
```

### Parallel Development Planning
- **Orthogonal issues**: Structure work into independent, well-scoped GitHub issues that can be executed concurrently
- **Clear dependencies**: Explicitly document issue dependencies and ensure each maintains working test state
- **Conservative phasing**: Move complex optimizations (memory management, performance tuning) to later phases

### Technical Debt Reduction
- **Unify tooling**: Consolidate multiple scripts with similar purposes into single, comprehensive tools
- **Consistent patterns**: Apply the same architectural patterns across similar components
- **Maintainable interfaces**: Design APIs that automatically benefit from future enhancements

> ### Implementation Strategy
> - **Phase 1**: Core functionality with file-based processing
> - **Phase 2**: Enhanced ergonomics and configuration options
> - **Phase 3**: Performance optimizations and memory management (only if justified by evidence)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
